Al jazir a senior political analyst
Marwan you're joining us from Paris what
Beggar's belief here in all of this
Maran is that eight agencies in the UN
have been warning about precisely this
not for days not for weeks but for
months well absolutely and U it's not
coincidental I mean they're not exactly
uh you know inspired by divine
intervention that we've been seeing a
pattern here by the Israelis there's an
intent to starve the people in Gaza I
think it's a a cheap way for the
Israelis to be killing and harming and
make Palestinians suffering as much as
possible on the cheap it's certainly
cheaper than bombing them for example is
just to make them starve through this
besieging of all Crossings and making
sure that F does not get to people so
this has been a state Terror on the part
of Israel it's trying to for the time
being tactically speaking put as much
pressure on Hamas as possible in order
to extract as much concessions as
possible by making the people in Gaza
suffer as much as
possible you've chronicled for us Marwan
not just this Gaza War but the previous
ones as well and I wonder since you're
usually the one you know who tells us to
see the wood for the trees see the
forest for the trees um and to and to
watch the deed rather than public
statements coming out of Israel did you
5 months ago see something like this
coming well in fact uh on the 12th if I
remember correctly of October I wrote
Under the
title um manufacturing the case for
genocide it was clear five days after uh
the attack of October 7 that Israel the
United States and some European leaders
were uh Paving the ground for a
side uh by for example among others
comparing Hamas to Isis and comparing um
October 7 to 911 and so on so forth
making it clear that the response is
going to be indiscriminate it's going to
be total it's going to be a total war
and it's going to involve the population
of Gaza and as soon as the Israeli
president and then every other official
in Israel said there are no Innocents in
Gaza it was clear there was an intent to
make people in a suffer and perhaps get
rid of them if possible now if you
listen finally you know to the European
officials where I am J Bell the EU
foreign policy Chief declared today
today that Gaza is not on the brink of
famine it is in a state of famine so the
Europeans are coming to their senses and
they're seeing what we saw five months
ago that they've been implicit in fact
in a genocide what was the Israeli
foreign Minister's response to the EU
Chief claimed that Israel is weaponizing
hunger and famine is already State of
Affair in Gaza he said and listen to
this it's food for thought the Israeli
foreign minister cat said onwa onor is
conspiring to drop food deliveries in
Gaza that Israel is doing everything
possible to get food and and
humanitarian Aid to Gaza but onor one is
disrupting food to Gaza I mean deception
lying and such with such vulgarity by
the Israelis where they are denying the
Palestinians food while they are in fact
starving food has reached a new level of
such absurdity we don't know whether to
you know hurt for the Palestinian will
just laugh at the Israelis but these
Israeli claims that this is all Uno's
fault I think it's fair to say they're
not working nobody is buying this I'm
yet to hear of anybody any expert any
guest have spoken to anyone for the last
five months at least outside of Israel
who um doesn't blame Israel for this so
we've already seen 23 Palestinians die
of malnutrition and dehydration more
will continue to die as is likely and as
was um starkly laid out in the report
Israel will get blamed for this so the
question is do they
care you'd be surprised by the way
because Israel of course claims that Ono
is conspiring with Hamas right because
out of the
13,000 staff that work for onad they
apparently
shaken a handful of staff to say that
they apparently reportedly by the
Israelis with no with no independent
verification that six out of 13,000
apparently cooperate with habas or
something so the Israelis have been
deceiving the public for five months and
look I mean despite the German
Chancellor yesterday and the EU
President vanderlin also yesterday and
today Joseph Bell and the Americans
themselves President Biden talking about
the humanitarian but no one S no one is
doing anything about it only words there
are no Deeds they are talking the talk
but they're certainly not walking their
talk they're not using leverage against
Israel or in Israel they're not putting
enough pressure to make sure that Israel
does deliver the food the fact that they
started dropping food from the air and
bringing it by sea because they simply
could not force Israel's hands to allow
food in enough to feed the people in
Gaza because a long way to show you how
bankrupt Israel's Ally in the west have
been five months into an unraveling
genocide in plain side on TV screen in
Paris London Washington and
Berlin Mar bishar aljazira senior
political analyst thank you very
much